README.md, before:

# BruinAlarm
BruinAlarm is our hardware hack for IDEA Hacks 2020.

## Project Background
College: the first taste of independence for the vast majority of young adults. It introduces them to an environment where they can gain the knowledge, skills, and independence to forge their own path in life. It introduces them to a vibrant and diverse group of people, one that they may not otherwise have been exposed to. However, such an invaluable experience comes with great cost as tuition costs continue to increase and student loan debt is at an all-time high, yet wages have stagnated; thus, it is vital that the college experience be as efficacious as possible to maximize its worth.

Many obstacles arise in a student's journey to maximize the college experience. Such obstacles include a heavy courseload, extracurricular responsibilities, and personal matters. Each obstacle induces unnecessary stress on the student, which introduces a plethora of problems. One of the main issues that arises as a result of this induced stress is lack of proper sleep.

As college students ourselves, we recognize the importance of academic success and the sacrafices that have to be made to achieve said success. That being said, we also recognize that a good night's sleep plays a pivotal role in our health and overall performance in and out of the classroom. Knowing that the majority of students - including us - will sacrafice a proper good night's sleep for top marks in our courses, we decided to build a vibrating alarm and incorporate that into a comfortable, portable pillow that students can take with them anywhere on campus. That way, they can take quick naps in between classes and allow their brains to rest for the inevitable all-nighter.

## Research



## Team Members
### *BruinAlarm was made with :heart: by:*
- Christian Aguilar, *University of California, Los Angeles*
- Anna Anderson, *University of California, Los Angeles*
- Jim Solomon, *University of California, Los Angeles*
- Joel Sanchez, *Riverside Community College*
- Elbert Nguyen, *University of California, Riverside*

*BruinAlarm 2020. Made with :heart: at UCLA.*

Commit message:

README updated
Added "Research" and "References" sections

README.md, after:

# BruinAlarm
BruinAlarm is our hardware hack for IDEA Hacks 2020.

## Project Background
College: the first taste of independence for the vast majority of young adults. It introduces them to an environment where they can gain the knowledge, skills, and independence to forge their own path in life. It introduces them to a vibrant and diverse group of people, one that they may not otherwise have been exposed to. However, such an invaluable experience comes with great cost as tuition costs continue to increase and student loan debt is at an all-time high, yet wages have stagnated; thus, it is vital that the college experience be as efficacious as possible to maximize its worth.

Many obstacles arise in a student's journey to maximize the college experience. Such obstacles include a heavy courseload, extracurricular responsibilities, and personal matters. Each obstacle induces unnecessary stress on the student, which introduces a plethora of problems. One of the main issues that arises as a result of this induced stress is lack of proper sleep, which leads to daytime sleepiness.

As college students ourselves, we recognize the importance of academic success and the sacrafices that have to be made to achieve said success. That being said, we also recognize that a good night's sleep plays a pivotal role in our health and overall performance in and out of the classroom. Knowing that the majority of students - including us - will sacrafice a proper good night's sleep for top marks in our courses, we decided to build a vibrating alarm and incorporate that into a comfortable, portable pillow that students can take with them anywhere on campus. That way, they can take quick naps in between classes and allow their brains to rest for the inevitable all-nighter.

## Research
Daytime sleepiness is a major problem experienced by college students, which is caused by sleep deprivation due to the lack of sleep students obtain. 70.6% of students report getting less than the recommended 8 hours of sleep every night, and 82.1% said they took a form of medication to aid in sleep.[1](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1054139X09002389)

#### References
1. Lund HG, Reider BD, Whiting AB, Prichard JR. Sleep patterns and predictors of disturbed sleep in a large population of college students. J Adolesc Health. 2010;46(2):124–132. [PubMed](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1054139X09002389)


## Team Members
### *BruinAlarm was made with :heart: by:*
- Christian Aguilar, *University of California, Los Angeles*
- Anna Anderson, *University of California, Los Angeles*
- Jim Solomon, *University of California, Los Angeles*
- Joel Sanchez, *Riverside Community College*
- Elbert Nguyen, *University of California, Riverside*

*BruinAlarm 2020. Made with :heart: at UCLA.*
